---
layout: post
title: "Notes on Startups (WIP)"
excerpt: ""
categories: articles
tags: [notes, startups]
comments: false
share: true
modified:
---

### Getting Real

Build less. Simplicity and focus.
Build it for yourself to solve your own problem.
Fix time and budget, flex scope. It’s better to make half a product than a half-assed product.
Keep it small and managable so you can actually enjoy the process.
Stay lean.
All the cash, all the marketing, all the people in the world can’t buy the agility you get from being small.
Embrace constraints: Let limitations guide you to creative solutions
Differentiate yourself from bigger companies by being personal and friendly.
Be proudly, defiantly truthful.
Work from large to small.Always.
Don’t waste time on problems you don’t have yet.
Make decisions just in time, when you have access to the real information you need.
In the meanwhile, you’ll be able to lavish attention on the things that require immediate care.

Stick to what’s truly essential. Good ideas can be tabled. Take whatever you
think your product should be and cut it in half. Pare features down until
you’re left with only the most essential ones. Then do it again.

For every new feature you need to...
1. Say no.
2. Force the feature to prove its value.
3. If “no” again, end here. If “yes,” continue...
4. Sketch the screen(s)/ui.
5. Design the screen(s)/ui.
6. Code it.
7-15. Test, tweak, test, tweak, test, tweak, test, tweak... 16. Check to see if help text needs to be modified.
17. Update the product tour (if necessary).
18. Update the marketing copy (if necessary).
19. Update the terms of service (if necessary).
20. Check to see if any promises were broken.
21. Check to see if pricing structure is affected.
22. Launch.
23. Hold breath.

Build products and offer services you can manage.

You don’t need to aim for perfection on the first try if you know it’s just
going to be done again later anyway. Knowing that you’re going to revisit
issues is a great motivator to just get ideas out there to see if they’ll fly.

Accept that decisions are temporary. Accept that mistakes will happen and
realize it’s no big deal as long as you can correct them quickly. Execute,
build momentum, and move on.

Estimates that stretch into weeks or months are fantasies. The truth is you
just don’t know what’s going to happen that far in advance.  So shrink your
time. Keep breaking down timeframes into smaller chunks. Instead of a 12 week
project, think of it as 12 weeklong projects. Instead of guesstimating at tasks
that take 30+ hours, break them down into more realistic 6-10 hour chunks. Then
proceed one step at a time.  The same theory applies to other problems too. Are
you facing an issue that’s too big to wrap your mind around? Break it down.
Keep dividing problems into smaller and smaller pieces until you’re able to
digest them.

Design the interface before you start programming.
The interface is your product.
Start from the core of the page and build outward

For each screen, you need to consider three possible states:
Regular
The screen people see when everything’s working fine and your app is flush with data.
Blank
The screen people see when using the app for the first time, before data is entered.
Error
The screen people see when something goes wrong.

Design for when things go wrong.

Every letter matters.

Keep your code as simple as possible.
Choose tools that keep your team excited and motivated.

Eliminate unnecessary paperwork.

Make signup and cancellation a painless process.

Avoid long-term contracts, sign-up fees, etc.

To build up buzz and anticipation, go with a Hollywood-style launch: 1) Teaser, 2) Preview, and 3) Launch.

Build an ace promotional site that introduces people to your product.

Blogging can be more effective than advertising (and it’s a hell of a lot cheaper)

We’ve already touched on it but it bears repeating: Get some sort of site up
and start collecting emails as soon as possible. Pick your domain name and put
up a logo and maybe a sentence or two that describes, or at least hints at,
what your app will do.  Then let people give you their email address. Now
you’re on your way to having a foundation of folks ready and waiting to be
notified of your launch.

Share your knowledge with the world.

Study your logs to track buzz.

Give your app a name that’s easy to remember.

Quick turnaround time on support queries should be a top priority.

Be willing to say no to your customers.

Get bad news out there and out of the way.

Issue a major update 30 days after launch.

Show your product is alive by keeping an ongoing product development blog post-launch.
Things to include:
Faqs
How-tos
Tips & tricks
New features, updates, & fixes Buzz/press

Prioritize your bugs (and even ignore some of them).

Be open to new paths and changes in direction.

!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Everyone can read a book. Everyone can come up with an idea. Everyone has a
cousin that’s a web designer. Everyone can write a blog.  Everyone can hire
someone to hack together some code.  The difference between you and everyone
else will be how well you execute. Success is all about great execution.

### Make

Coming soon...

### The Startup Owner's Manual

Coming soon...
