---
layout: post
title: "Book Summary: How to Live on Twenty-Four Hours a Day"
excerpt: ""
categories: articles
tags: [summary, productivity]
comments: false
share: true
modified:
---
Book [1]

"The wish to accomplish something outside their formal programme is common to
all men who in the course of evolution have risen past a certain level. "

After a certain amount of success, man often desires to become more. And in doing
so, with limited resources, encounters sadness.

The truth is that you will never have more time. It is the one constant thing that
all men have. (Not sure how much I agree with this.)

"The most important preliminary to the task of arranging one's life so that one
may live fully and comfortably within one's daily budget of twenty-four hours
is the calm realisation of the extreme difficulty of the task, of the
sacrifices and the endless effort which it demands. I cannot too strongly
insist on this. "

"If you imagine that you will be able to achieve your ideal by ingeniously
planning out a time-table with a pen on a piece of paper, you had better give
up hope at once. If you are not prepared for discouragements and disillusions;
if you will not be content with a small result for a big effort, then do not
begin. Lie down again and resume the uneasy doze which you call your existence.
"

Beware of undertaking too much at the start. Be content with quite a little.
Allow for accidents. Allow for human nature, especially your own.

A failure or so, in itself, would not matter, if it did not incur a loss of
self-esteem and of self-confidence. But just as nothing succeeds like success,
so nothing fails like failure. Most people who are ruined are ruined by
attempting too much. Therefore, in setting out on the immense enterprise of
living fully and comfortably within the narrow limits of twenty-four hours a
day, let us avoid at any cost the risk of an early failure. I will not agree
that, in this business at any rate, a glorious failure is better than a petty
success. I am all for the petty success. A glorious failure leads to nothing;
a petty success may lead to a success that is not petty.

If my typical man wishes to live fully and completely he must, in his mind,
arrange a day within a day. And this inner day, a Chinese box in a larger
Chinese box, must begin at 6 p.m. and end at 10 a.m. It is a day of sixteen
hours; and during all these sixteen hours he has nothing whatever to do but
cultivate his body and his soul and his fellow men. During those sixteen hours
he is free; he is not a wage-earner; he is not preoccupied with monetary
cares; he is just as good as a man with a private income. This must be his
attitude. And his attitude is all important. His success in life (much more
important than the amount of estate upon what his executors will have to pay
estate duty) depends on it.

One of the chief things which my typical man has to learn is that the mental
faculties are capable of a continuous hard activity; they do not tire like an
arm or a leg. All they want is change—not rest, except in sleep.

But remember, at the start, those ninety nocturnal minutes thrice a week must
be the most important minutes in the ten thousand and eighty. They must be
sacred, quite as sacred as a dramatic rehearsal or a tennis match. Instead of
saying, "Sorry I can't see you, old chap, but I have to run off to the tennis
club," you must say, "...but I have to work." This, I admit, is intensely
difficult to say. Tennis is so much more urgent than the immortal soul.

And without the power to concentrate—that is to say, without the power to
dictate to the brain its task and to ensure obedience—true life is impossible.
Mind control is the first element of a full existence.

When you leave your house, concentrate your mind on a subject (no matter what,
to begin with). You will not have gone ten yards before your mind has skipped
away under your very eyes and is larking round the corner with another
subject.

By the regular practice of concentration (as to which there is no secret—save
the secret of perseverance) you can tyrannise over your mind (which is not the
highest part of you) every hour of the day, and in no matter what place.

The exercise of concentrating the mind (to which at least half an hour a day
should be given) is a mere preliminary, like scales on the piano. Having
acquired power over that most unruly member of one's complex organism, one has
naturally to put it to the yoke. Useless to possess an obedient mind unless one
profits to the furthest possible degree by its obedience. A prolonged primary
course of study is indicated.

Now as to what this course of study should be there cannot be any question;
there never has been any question. All the sensible people of all ages are
agreed upon it. And it is not literature, nor is it any other art, nor is it
history, nor is it any science. It is the study of one's self. Man, know
thyself.

We do not reflect. I mean that we do not reflect upon genuinely important
things; upon the problem of our happiness, upon the main direction in which we
are going, upon what life is giving to us, upon the share which reason has (or
has not) in determining our actions, and upon the relation between our
principles and our conduct.

I suppose that you will not have the audacity to deny this. And if you admit
it, and still devote no part of your day to the deliberate consideration of
your reason, principles, and conduct, you admit also that while striving for a
certain thing you are regularly leaving undone the one act which is necessary
to the attainment of that thing.

Yes, books are valuable. But not reading of books will take the place of a
daily, candid, honest examination of what one has recently done, and what one
is about to do—of a steady looking at one's self in the face (disconcerting
though the sight may be).

When shall this important business be accomplished? The solitude of the evening
journey home appears to me to be suitable for it. A reflective mood naturally
follows the exertion of having earned the day's living.

The most important of all perceptions is the continual perception of cause and
effect—in other words, the perception of the continuous development of the
universe—in still other words, the perception of the course of evolution. When
one has thoroughly got imbued into one's head the leading truth that nothing
happens without a cause, one grows not only large-minded, but large-hearted.

You need not be devoted to the arts, not to literature, in order to live
fully.

The whole field of daily habit and scene is waiting to satisfy that curiosity
which means life, and the satisfaction of which means an understanding heart.

I suggest no particular work as a start. The attempt would be futile in the
space of my command. But I have two general suggestions of a certain
importance. The first is to define the direction and scope of your efforts.
Choose a limited period, or a limited subject, or a single author. Say to
yourself: "I will know something about the French Revolution, or the rise of
railways, or the works of John Keats." And during a given period, to be
settled beforehand, confine yourself to your choice. There is much pleasure to
be derived from being a specialist.

The second suggestion is to think as well as to read. I know people who read
and read, and for all the good it does them they might just as well cut
bread-and-butter. They take to reading as better men take to drink. They fly
through the shires of literature on a motor-car, their sole object being
motion. They will tell you how many books they have read in a year.

Unless you give at least forty-five minutes to careful, fatiguing reflection
(it is an awful bore at first) upon what you are reading, your ninety minutes
of a night are chiefly wasted. This means that your pace will be slow.

[1]: https://gutenberg.org/ebooks/2274